1. 
git branch---
Branches are created in GIT to diverge from the working project . branch is also a repository available on VCS .
there is no limitation in creating branches.These help while fixing a bug or adding a file.
git branch ---to see the available branches
git branch <branch name>--to add a branch
2.
git checkout <branch name>---to move from working branch to the specified branch.
3.
git merge <branch name>-- this helps to merge the current branch with the main branch 
4.
git ignore---
this mainly describes the files that are not tracked intentionally and ignored by GIT 
git .gitignore --contains path of files that should be ignored
5.
git push---
This command helps to upload all the local repository files to remote repository
git push 
6.
git stash
This keeps the track of working directory and the index .helps to save the local modification away and revert back.
takes care of the un finished changes.
git stash --helps to save local changes
git stash apply -- apply the changes that are made.
7.
git head
Points to the latest commit made for a file .This acts like head of the next commit
git show HEAD -- Used to check the status of the head.
8.
git pull
This command is used to get the file from the remote repository to the local repository 
git pull <remote> --fetches the remote copy and merge with the local copy
9.
git remote
Used to make the connections with the remote repositoty
git remote -v ---specifies current remote connections
10.
git revert
This helps to undo the changes to the history of commits. done based on the HEAD Id
git revert HEADID---specified ID'S commit will be lost.
11.
git tag
To create tags to the file we use tag command
git tag <tag_name> ---to create a new tag
12.
git mv
This is used to rename the file 
git mv <Toberenamed.txt> <renamed.txt> --- command to rename the existing file
13.
git init
Helps in creating a blank repository and helps in making existing project as a GIT project.
git init ---creates a sub directory(.git) in the current working directory.
14.
git add
Adding the file content to the staging area.and updates the content to staging area.
git add <file_name>--- specify the name of the file to be added.
15.
git commit
Specifies the project staged changes.helps for safe version of project.
git commit -m "<message>"--- specified message to be given.
16.
git clone
Helps to clone local or remote repository
git clone <path> --needs to specify the path of the repository
17.
git restore
This command discards uncommited local changes
git restore <file_name>
18.
git diff
Helps to view the modifications in the file
git diff --- command gives the modified lines
19.
git log
This is used to review and read the history of the files.
20.
git status 
displays the state of the working directoryand the staging area.
21.
setting environment variables username a
git config --global username "<USER_NAME>"
git config --global emailid "<EMAIL>"
22.
local repository --Repository that make local changes
Centralized repository --Stores the code at a place and helps to work among people in group.
Distributed Server -- Can be Accessed and modified.
23.
open-source
Speed
Secure
Reliable
Fast
Scalable
24.
VCS is a Software that maintains the different versions of product we develop .records the changes in the file .Helps to compare  Files and versions .
25.
Index file contains list of pathnames with permissions.





